# spring-cloud-eureka-microservices
Implementation of Microservices using Spring Cloud and Eureka Server.
==================================================================================
IDE used: STS
Build : Maven
JDK: 1.8
==================================================================================
Section 1
Import the projects and build it to download all the dependencies.
After successful built, run eureka-server as Java Application, first.
Open url http://localhost:8761, you will see Eureka server running.

Section 2
	Start "subject", "verb", "article", "adjective", and "noun" as separate java applications (these apps will provides random words as the name mentioned) in STS. After successful run of all these five, go to eureka-server UI which we have already started, you will see above five servicces are registered with Eureka server. Dont worry if you dont see them immidiately as it takes a little time to get registered.

 
Section 3
    Run the sentence application (which provides the complete sentence generated by combining the random words from above five servies). check eureka-server UI, you will see sentence service is also registered along with other five services. Once sentence service is up and registered on eureka server, Open http://localhost:8020/sentence and if everything works fine, you should see several sentences appearing randomly from server
	
	Thats it.

================================================================================
    Sometimes you may encounter an ominous message on the Eureka console saying "EMERGENCY! EUREKA MAY BE INCORRECTLY CLAIMING INSTANCES ARE UP WHEN THEY'RE NOT. RENEWALS ARE LESSER THAN THRESHOLD AND HENCE THE INSTANCES ARE NOT BEING EXPIRED JUST TO BE SAFE." The simple explanation: Eureka expects clients to periodically renew their registrations - the default is 30 seconds. When services fail to renew Eureka removes them from the list. When a large % of services renew, Eureka assumes that the problem is with network connectivity, not the client services. In this situation it continues to list services that it has not heard from, but gives you this message to warn you that it may be wrong. When you are working on the labs you will be frequently stopping and restarting most services, and this large change triggers the warning.
 
